# WELCOME

This is just a rack application, so you can view the site locally by setting up passenger or running rackup. Easy.

## Deployment

### Enabling the Apache modules required by our config

    root$ a2enmod expires
    root$ a2enmod rewrite

### Using recap to deploy

    $ cap bootstrap
    $ cap deploy:setup
    $ cap deploy

### Set the freerange user's shell to bash

So that Passenger can pick up environment vars from ~/.profile.

    root$ chsh -s /bin/bash freerange

### Configure passwordless sudo access for members of the freerange group

So that we don't have to type our password when deploying.

    root$ echo "%freerange ALL=NOPASSWD: ALL" > /etc/sudoers.d/freerange
    root$ chmod 440 /etc/sudoers.d/freerange

### Configuring Airbrake

So that exceptions are reported to our Errbit app. You may need to create a new "app" within the Errbit instance in order to obtain the API key, which is "app"-specific.

    $ cap env:set AIRBRAKE_API_KEY=<api-key-for-this-app-within-errbit-app>
    $ cap env:set AIRBRAKE_HOST=<errbit-app-host>

### Updating the Apache config file

    # Copy the Apache config file (this will trigger Apache to reload)
    $ cap apache:enable_config

## Writing a snip

A snip is just a text file within the `soup`, like "here-is-my-stuff.snip". You can write whatever you like in the file, and it will be rendered as is when you visit http://yoursite/here-is-my-stuff.

You might want to use something like Markdown or Textile to format your text. To do so, you need to add some snip attributes to the bottom of the file. After a blank line, write something like this:

    :render_as: Markdown
    :created_at: 2010-11-04 11:12:54 +00:00

That tells vanilla to use Markdown to render the snip. The 'created_at' property is optional, but becomes important if you ever want to sort the snips (i.e. for a blog feed). If you want to use Textile, change the `:render_as:` property. Every snip can use a different renderer (and multiple renderers can be involved in a single page if you start getting into snip inclusion; it's powerful stuff). You can add other attributes if you want, like `:author:` or whatever. Go wild.

This particular vanilla site uses multiple soups to make it easier to organise the content. Within the `soup` directory there are snips, and also subdirectories; These contain other snips, but don't result in nested urls. In other words, if a snip called `hello.snip` is in `soup/blog`, it is still served from `http://yoursite/hello`, and not `http://yoursite/blog/hello`. The URL space is flat.

## Writing a blog post

Blog posts are just snips with a particular attribute set:

    :kind: blog

There's a dynasnip called 'kind' that finds all snips with that property and value, and then renders them all appropriately.

If you want to mark a snip as a draft set the `draft` attribute to `true`. This means it will not appear in any lists generated by the `list-of` dynasnip.

If you're not sure, just look at some of the other snips in `soup/blog`.

## Including a snip in the sitemap

The site map is generated on the fly and includes any page with:

    :is_page: true

## Updating CSS

### Install node modules

    $ npm install

### Generate CSS

The `*.css` files are generated from `*.less` files in `public/stylesheets`. You can regenerate a specific file using a command like:

    lessc public/stylesheets/screen.less >public/stylesheets/screen.css

### Regression test

There are a set of Rake tasks under the 'regression' namespace which allow generation and comparison of a set of normalized HTML/XML artefacts. Note that these Rake tasks depend on HTML Tidy [1] which can be installed via `brew install tidy-html5` on OSX.

[1]: http://www.html-tidy.org/
